### What my project is

My project, ShopList, is a web-based application created using Python, SQL, JavaScript, HTML and CSS. ShopList is an application that allows users to create and join ShopList groups - groups where members can remotely and conveniently update, view and amend shopping lists for the group's Shopper to buy, all of which can occur concurrently and instantaneously.

Members of the same ShopList group can add items that they want to buy to the group's list or amend the list remotely at any point of time, and the "Shopper" - the person buying the items on the list, can pull up the web application, reference it as per a normal shopping list, check off the list whilst shopping, make amendments to it, and notify members of the items’ purchasing status.

ShopList groups can be created with just a group name and a password, which is also the method by which other people can join the same group. As an added feature, group members have the ability to recover the group password should they forget it, via either a phone number or an email address that can be linked to the group. Upon successfully recovering the group password and logging into the group, the user is notified that their authentication is successful, and afterwards prompted to change the password and confirm the new password, to ensure that the user does not forget the password again.

Upon successfully joining or creating a group, the user is redirected to the homepage of the group. If the user has joined the group after recovering and changing a lost password, an informative message appears at the top of the page, informing users that their password has been successfully changed. Below the message welcoming the user to the group is text that reads “Group password:” followed by a white box. This is a stylistic addition where users can hover over (or tap on in mobile devices) the white box to reveal the group password, and when the cursor is not hovering over the box (or by tapping elsewhere on mobile devices), the white box returns to cover and hide the group password for privacy. An option is available for users to change their passwords in the homepage. Additionally, there is an option that urges users to link either a phone number, an email address, or both to the group, in order to have alternate modes of authentications should the user forget their password and want to recover it. If the group already has both a phone number and an email address linked to it by someone, or if you have just linked both, the urgent option becomes a simple message to inform you and other users that both an email address and a phone number has been linked to the group successfully, and provides an option to change the linked phone number and/or email address. Users are also notified when the group password is changed or when the aforementioned identifications are linked to the group successfully.

The homepage is also where users select their role in the group, either a "Shopper", or an "Appender". Both selections will lead to the main list page, and these different role choices determine the slight differences in the interface and features of the list page.

ShopList groups are split into 2 main roles: the “Shopper”, who is the one (or ones) that reads the list and purchases the items on the list, and the “Appenders”s, members of the group that are invited via a password to add items to the shopping list and access a variety of other features.

#### The appender page:
When a user first enters the list page, an empty table with columns is shown, with a big blue “Add item” button at the foot and a message that tells users that the list is currently empty. This message appears whenever the list is empty, informing users. Clicking the blue “Add item” button reveals a pop-up form that allows users to key in an item’s name and the desired quantity of the item. After validly submitting this form, a row instantly appears in the list table, along with a notification bar at the top of the page that explains the last action performed, which includes the item added, the quantity of it, and the date and time it was added. This notification appears anytime any changes are made to the list - be it adding, subtracting or deleting items, and it persists for all users, constantly alerting the last action. This function is useful for multiple reasons. Firstly, Shoppers will be clearly notified about sudden last minute changes to the list, and not overlook or forget these changes. Secondly, it can prevent accidental clicks, presses or misclicks from all parties going unnoticed as it clearly states the last action performed. There is also a hyperlink to redirect members to the Shopper page and vice versa, to allow easy switching between roles and accessing the different functions.

**Table rows:**
Table rows have 5 columns - status, image, item, quantity and delete. Firstly, the status column has a value of “Pending” by default, as the item has just been added and not purchased by the Shopper yet. However, this value can be changed easily by the Shopper with a simple click to display the updated shopping status (Pending/Done/Out-Of-Stock/Cancelled) of the item. This allows Appenders to monitor the status and progress of their item, while also helping Shoppers change and keep track of items' statuses in a long list. Secondly, the image column shows an input box and a submission button initially. The user has the option to simply search online for a desired image and submit its image url, and the form in the status column will be replaced by the image immediately. This displayed image will help Shoppers to better understand the Appender's request, especially if there is ambiguity with only the item's name. Thirdly, the "item" column and the centre column of the table contains the item's name. Below the item's name is an input box and a submission button where users can decide to add a brief description of the item. Similar to the image, the description form is replaced by the description immediately upon submission. This description helps Shoppers to know more specifically what the Appender desires. Fourthly, the quantity column contains the quantity of the item desired, along with a blue plus and minus button on either side. These buttons add or subtract the quantity of the item respectively by one. Lastly, the delete column contains a red trash can symbol that changes the quantity of the item to zero, and deletes the entire row when clicked on. These plus, minus, and delete buttons, on top of serving their individual functions, also show up on and update the "last action" notification bar with the item's name, quantity added or subtracted, and the date and time the action was performed. This last action notification persists even after logging out, and is also visible to other Appenders, as well as the Shopper in the Shopper page. All these information, columns and functions are available for each and every row of the table.

All these actions performed and changes made are immediately implemented and displayed for all users viewing the list regardless of their role as a Shopper or fellow Appender, viewing device, or platform. The display of the list, changes made to it, and the last action notification also persist after logging out.

#### The shopper page:
The Shopper page is largely similar to the Appender page, with some extra functions and some potentially distracting features removed. The Shopper page has the same informatics as the Appender page, having the same table structure, rows, and table values as all group members view. This also includes being able to see the notification of the last action done. However, the table has its image adding function and description adding function removed, as it may be potentially distracting to Shoppers navigating a list. In its place, any added image or description will still show as per normal, but "None" will be shown instead of the form if no image or description is added.

Moreover, the Shopper is given the ability to change the status of an item (Pending/Done/Out-Of-Stock/Cancelled) through a convenient method - simply clicking on an item's status to toggle it. This would allow the Shopper to easily convey the current status of items to members of the group, as well as keeping track of items' purchasing statuses themselves (for example: indicating an item as "done" after buying it). These changes in the statuses of items also persist after logging out, and are displayed to all group members regardless of role.

On top of convenience, another advantage of the toggle button is its ability to have the status be both viewed and changed by the Shopper. In contrast, the Appender's page does not have this toggle button to change the items' statuses, but they are still able to see the statuses of items and are reflected the updated statuses of items should the Shopper change them.

The last main difference is that the Shopper's page, unlike the Appender's page, does not have the big blue footer button to add items to the list. This is because it is unnecessary to the Shopper and distracting. In its place is instead a button labelled "mark all as done", which clears the entire list. This button is intended to be used by the Shopper upon completing the purchase of every item in the list, and clears the entire list completely, from the display, to the last action notification, and even from the database. As this is a very powerful function, a pop-up confirmation form appears when the button is pressed, and only carries on with the action if the user confirms the deletion. After deleting the list, the display changes to the default empty list for all group members and a notification message appears at the top of the page to inform the Shopper that the list has been successfully cleared and is ready to be used again.

All buttons in this web application also change colour and enlarge when hovered over, to be more interactive, intuitive, and user-friendly. This web application is also mobile-friendly to support convenience and use across multiple platforms.

All inputs, buttons and forms in this web application also support error catching, with appropriate and varied handling of various errors. (e.g. a red error message will show for incorrect group password, whereas nothing visually will happen if a description input is left blank, but an internal server error will not occur)
